# Operating System

## Kernel
Kernel is central component of an operating system that manages operations of computer and hardware. It basically manages operations of memory and CPU time. It is core component of an operating system. Kernel acts as a bridge between applications and data processing performed at hardware level using inter-process communication and system calls.<br>
Kernel loads first into memory when an operating system is loaded and remains into memory until operating system is shut down again. It is responsible for various tasks such as disk management, task management, and memory management.<br>
It decides which process should be allocated to processor to execute and which process should be kept in main memory to execute. It basically acts as an interface between user applications and hardware. The major aim of kernel is to manage communication between software i.e. user-level applications and hardware i.e., CPU and disk memory.

## Objectives of Kernel
* To establish communication between user level application and hardware.
* To decide state of incoming processes.
* To control disk management.
* To control memory management.
* To control task management.

## Kernel Data Structure
Kernel Data Structures are mainly similar to the standard programming data structures.
* Singly Linked List
* Doubly Linked List
* Circular Linked List
* Doubly Circular Linked List
* Binary Search Tree
* Hash Function
* Bitmap

## Computing Environments

### Traditional
* Stand Alone general purpose machines
* But blurred as most systems interconnect with others (i.e., the internet)

### Mobile
* Handheld devices like smartphones, tablets, etc.
* Some extra features like GPS, Gyroscope

### Distributed
* Collection of seprate, possibly hetrogeneous, systems networked together.
* Network OS provides featers between systems across network.

### Client Server
* Server connected to many clients via network.
* Many systems now server, responding to requests generated by clients.

### Peer to Peer
* Another model of distributed system
* P2P doesnot distinguish clients and servers, instead all nodes are considered peers

### Virtualization
* Allows OS to run applications within other OSes.
* Emulation used when source CPU type is different from target type.

### Cloud Computing
* Delivers computing, storage, even apps as a service across a network
* Logical extension of virtualization because it uses virtualization as the base for its functionality.

### Real Time Embedded Systems
* Real time embedded systems are most prevalent form of computers
* They vary considerable, special purpose, limited purpose OS, real-time OS.
